google ads is a powerful tool for small
businesses especially if you need
immediate results the core benefit of
google ads over facebook ads is that you
are catching people right at the time
when they are ready to book your service
or buy your product so you don't have to
worry about introducing them to your
product or selling the core benefits of
your product they have gone to google
for one reason and one reason only and
that is to solve their problem today in
this video i'm going to show you the
exact strategies that you need to use in
google ads when you have a small budget
and then after that i'll show you the
exact step-by-step process for how you
actually go about setting up your
campaign in google ads when you only
have a small budget my name is aaron
young and i'm your 15 000 google ads
master i designed this teaching video
especially for small to medium business
owners who are operating a service-based
business targeting local areas so if
that's you why don't you like this video
and subscribe to my channel right now so
you can see every time i release a video
to help your business grow with the
correct strategy and campaign setup
google ads can change your business
unfortunately too many business owners
have the wrong strategy and the wrong
campaign set up in google ads and it's
costing them money so to make sure you
have success you have to a clear
strategy a highly defined initial target
market and the correct campaign setup in
google ads for success in google ads you
need to have a clear strategy too many
campaigns and google ads fail because
they don't start with the end in mind
for success in google ads it is
extremely important that your ad copy
and your website both have one clear
goal and the question you need to answer
before you start or set up any google
ads campaign is what action do you want
the person to take do you want them to
give you a call do you want them to send
you an email do you want them to fill
out a form or do you want them to come
into your office or your shop let me
show you two really quick examples of
local businesses that are seeing success
and the reason is is because they have a
clear strategy that runs all the way
from their ad copy through to their
website the first example i want to show
is for a pest control and an air
conditioning service company as you can
see as soon as you get onto their
website there's a call button up the top
right hand corner and then as you scroll
down the page you see options to contact
them and there's also a facebook
messenger pop-up now because this
business has a full-time customer
service representative they're making it
very very clear that they want their
users to contact them so they can
schedule in their booking and the second
business although it's slightly
different the second business is putting
a higher priority on their online
website forms and as you can see as soon
as you get onto the website you can see
the book now button but that's actually
followed up with the google reviews
which are verifying the fast service and
the fast answer that you receive once
you fill out your online form so while
both of those businesses have the same
goal of wanting you to contact them in
order to make an appointment there was a
slight difference in the focus the first
business because they have a full-time
customer service team we're giving you
ways of where you could contact their
customer service straight away whether
by a phone call or through facebook
messenger whereas the second business
because they don't have that full-time
support they were giving a clear message
if they wanted you to fill out their
contact form but what they then did is
take it a step further and have clear
google reviews showing and telling the
customer that if you fill out your form
they're going to respond very very
quickly so both of these companies are
seeing success with google ads because
they've started with the end in mind and
they've got a very very clear message
and strategy on their website of what
they want the user to do once they land
on your website the second thing that
you need to do as a small business owner
for success in google ads is to have a
well-defined initial target market and
the reason for that as a small business
owner or someone entering a new space
it's highly likely that you'll be
competing against larger businesses some
of which may have a marketing budget
which is actually larger than your whole
gross revenue of your company and then
on top of that you're also likely to be
competing against local well-established
businesses who have a strong following
so for cut through you need to be very
strategic and you can do this in two
core ways firstly don't go after all of
your locations the service area for your
business may cover a whole city and
depending on the size and population of
your city you may actually burn through
all of your budget before you actually
get any initial conversions so the
better strategy when you're starting out
is just to pick either one two three or
four local suburbs that you know you can
get some cut through in the benefit of
this is that you're targeting your ad
spend on a particular smaller area
rather than spreading a smaller budget
across multiple suburbs and then the
second option is is that don't go after
all of the keywords in your niche so for
example as a plumber you may offer up to
five or six different services but to
get cut through initially you can target
some of the lower volume and cheaper
keywords that your competitors may not
be spending as much time for for example
rather than going after emergency
plumbing services which have high volume
and high costs you could target some of
the smaller themes maybe around drainage
or gas fitting and this may help you get
the initial conversions and then you can
upsell them to more expensive and
premium services the benefit of using
these two targeted strategies is is that
once you start to get some success and
once you start to increase your revenue
through google ads you can then go back
and do two things you can start to
expand your initial target area that
your ads are showing and then secondly
you can start to add in those extra
keyword themes that match your products
and your services but when you do start
to expand and scale your campaign you're
able to use some initial data like which
ad copy performs the best what is my
best performing age demographics what
are my best performing audiences so
you've already got inbuilt learning that
you can use to grow and expand your
campaign in a profitable manner and a
very quick pro tip that works well with
these two strategies when you come to
write your ad copy in google ads make it
as aggressive as possible and what i
mean by that is what is your unique
selling point that you can put into your
ad copy is it that you're offering a
cheaper price or an introductory offer
is it that you offer a higher level of
service than your competitors is it your
experience of qualifications that no one
else in your area has or it may even be
your contract and service conditions
whatever your unique selling point is
make it very clear on your ads because
this will not only help your
click-through ratio but it will also
help your end conversion rates now that
you have your clear strategy and your
website is communicating exactly what
you want your user to do when they get
into your website and you also have a
very clear defined initial market let's
go to setting up your campaign let me
take you through the step-by-step
process on how you can set up your very
own google ads account the first thing
you need to do is to go to
ads.google.com and then if you already
have a google ads account you can
quickly go to sign in or if this is your
first time you can actually go to get
started and then this will bring you to
this screen where you either sign into
your google account or you click on this
create account button down here a quick
word of warning if this is your first
time in google ads you may see this
screen and what you want to do is you
actually want to go down and you want to
click and go to the switch to expert
mode this will then bring you into this
screen where you want to go in and click
on new campaign now because we are
focusing on a service based business i'm
actually going to put in that we are
looking for leads and then from there we
want to select a search campaign and
then you have an option to create some
conversion actions i'll skip this for
now because later in the campaign we
will have an option to add some call
extensions so we can track those calls
you then come down to your campaign name
and with your campaign name i do
recommend that you put in a name that's
going to make it easy for you to
understand so i've just put local leads
campaign but you may want to put in the
actual city name or the suburb name that
your campaign is targeting then you
press continue from here we go to set up
our budget and bidding to set your
budget you set it as a daily budget but
it is important to note that google
actually calculates your daily budget on
a monthly amount and they confirm this
well they say here that for the month
you won't pay more than your daily
budget time to average number of days in
the month so for example if you want to
spend 300 a month you need to put in a
daily budget of 10 or if you wanted to
spend 450 a month you would put in a
daily budget of 15 and then the next
option is your bidding when it comes to
bidding you do have options to actually
set it for clicks and if you do have
some conversions already it will give
you the option for conversions but what
i would be recommending is that we want
to start the initial focus on clicks and
then once we start to get some
conversion actions we can change that to
conversions in this more settings
section this is just talking about add
rotation and we're happy to leave that
as is for now so go and click next
because we're just focusing on a search
network i actually unselect both of
these the reason for why i unselect the
include google search partners is
because we don't get as much data which
makes it harder to optimize so we only
want to appear when people are doing
google searches and then secondly for
the display network i unchecked this box
and the reason for that is because if we
want to start a display or an image
based ad we're going to set that at a
later date as opposed to google just
using your search ads as a display
network ad now we come down to locations
and remember what i said with our
initial strategy rather than putting in
a whole country i'd actually be going
down and targeting it by different
postcodes in your local area and you can
do that by typing in your local postcode
or zip code this will then bring up the
list and then you can target that local
area from here if you did want to target
some other postcodes you can go through
and repeat that process and because we
are focusing on a smaller budget
campaign we do want to go down into this
location options selection and we
actually want to select the presence
option now the reason for this is
because that will only target people who
are regularly in our target areas and it
will exclude people who are just showing
interest in our areas and the reason for
why i've done this is because obviously
we've only got a very small budget so
we're wanting to make sure that we're
only targeting people who are currently
in our local area and are most likely to
use our product or service we then want
to keep it just in one language and for
this example we're using english now
this next step is very very important
most people will just skip over this
audience segments but because we are
running on a limited budget it is highly
important that we add in some audience
segments so to do that you want to click
down on this button and then depending
on what your product or service is you
want to write in some similar names so
if you're running a plumbing business
you type in plumbing and then you can
select all of the relevant audiences or
if you're offering personal training you
can then add audiences which match that
keyword theme so then you can go through
and select all these audiences and add
them to your campaign remember with this
option we are just running the
observation method which means that we
are not cutting out people who aren't
part of your audience segments it's just
that we are getting extra data for
people who appear in this audience you
can then go through and click next we've
now come to the part where you need to
add in your ad groups your keywords in
your ads now i highly recommend that
before you go through your campaign
setup that you would have already done
your keyword research and written your
ad copy i actually have teaching videos
on both of these subjects and at the end
of this video i'll share the links so
that you can actually go through and
watch my full keyword research tutorial
and also my full ad copy tutorial now
that we've got our keywords and ad
groups added we can just go through and
click next this will bring us to the
section where we can add in our
extensions now i recommend adding as
many extensions as possible but for
today we're just going to talk about
adding site link extensions and then
also our call extensions now the reason
for why i recommend adding site link
extensions is for two reasons because
once your ads are set up it gives you
ability to send people to different
parts of your website which could be
about how to contact you about your
services and about individual service
offerings and the additional benefit is
is that your ads actually take up more
space and it actually doubles the size
of your ad you can see here what it
looks like on mobile and then when we go
across to desktop we're taking out more
screen real estate and highlighting the
ad which will actually increase your
chances of a user clicking on your ad so
once we've added in through our site
link extensions the next option is that
we want to add in our call extensions
with our call extension you select your
country and then you want to add in your
phone number now if you want this
extension to actually appear on your ads
that phone number does also have to
appear on your website now remember
earlier when we're going through the
campaign settings i said that if you add
a call extension you'll actually
automatically set up some conversion
tracking in google ads and this is where
it happens so once you've actually added
in your phone number you can actually
use this conversion action use account
settings and then once you actually
press save that will start automatically
tracking in google ads every time
someone has clicked on your ad and then
run your phone so just by using this
option you already have your very first
conversion tracking done inside google
ads once you've added in your phone
number you can then go through and click
next this then brings you to the section
where you review your campaign and once
you're happy with everything you just
then quickly go through and press
publish campaign congratulations you've
now set up your new campaign now that
you have your campaign set up in google
ads it's highly important that you have
a very clear optimization strategy so
what i've actually done for you i've
actually put together a free google ads
optimization checklist and this
checklist takes you through the
optimizations that you need to complete
on a weekly basis on a monthly basis and
every 90 days to get your free checklist
just go to the link in my description
and you can get yours today thank you
for sticking around as always it's been
my absolute pleasure teaching you and
especially today it's been my honor to
actually take small business owners
through the steps and how they can
actually use the correct strategies and
then also go through the step-by-step
process so they can actually set up
their own google ads campaign now as
promised throughout the video here are
these next two videos that you need to
watch this one over here will help you
with your keyword research and this one
over here will help you write ads that
convert in google ads once again make
sure you like this video and subscribe
to my channel so that you know every
time i release a new video so that you
can grow your business with google ads
see you next time